# Introduction

This guide is an attempt to help folks get started programming using the Atari ST using the GNU Toolchain. There are many resources online for getting started with various aspects of Atari ST programming but many of them assume you're already familiar with the Atari ST development environments or assume that you're using one of the many compilers on the Atari ST platform itself. Worse, 20 years on the internet have taken their toll with sites pointing to dead links, dead sites, or worse. This guide attempts to rectify this by including as much information as possible in the guide to prevent link-rot and allow for editing and expansion as necessary. My intention is for this guide to be a collaborative work so folks can update it and keep it current for future generations of Atari ST programmers.

There are many compilers for the Atari ST machines but I've decided to focus my efforts on the GNU Toolchain (gcc, as, make, etc.) for several reasons. The first reason is because the GNU Toolchain is relatively stable. Most thing will work from version to version. The second reason is that the GNU Toolchain is available for multiple platforms including the Atari ST itself. The third reason is the likelihood of being able to find the GNU Toolchain. Some compilers are only available from a single source so when that source disappears from the Internet it becomes the responsibility of the community to pass that compiler around as much as they are able. That puts a burden on both the community to keep code that they may or may not have the rights to redistribute available for others. That's a huge burden. Worse, it also means that some code is hidden behind forum links or other forms of cheap hosting. Focusing on the GNU Toolchain means the code should hopefully outlast us all and allow future generations to participate with as little friction as possible.

This guide is also written in Markdown using Pandoc to convert to other formats such as HTML, PDF, and ePub. It's my hope that this makes the text and example code more accessible to folks to port it to whatever uses they need. I'm not sure what the future will bring but hopefully the ability to parse a Markdown file will be part of that future. Should this not be the case then hopefully someone can take the trouble to convert it to whatever formats our dystopian future requires.

I'm a novice in the Atari ST world, so this guide is also my attempt to document this process not only for myself but for other novices. Feedback from those more experienced on the platform is welcome.  If something looks wrong it probably is. Again, I hope this is more of a community effort rather than the typing of one enthusiastic amateur.

I hope you enjoy the journey into the Atari ST. I know my journey thus far has found a fascinating machine waiting to be explored. I look forward to our journey together.
